go API examples and docs (#4656)
gravitational/teleport: docs/4.4/api-reference.md

> Teleport is currently working on documenting our API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
We can remove this intro.

In most cases, you can interact with Teleport using our CLI tools, [tsh](cli-docs.md#tsh) and [tctl](cli-docs.md#tctl). However, there are some scenarios where you may need to interact with Teleport programmatically. For this purpose, you can directly use the same API that `tctl` and `tsh` use.

> !!! warning
> 
>         We are currently working on this project. If you have an API suggestion, [please complete our survey](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1HPQu5Asg3lR0cu5crnLDhlvovGpFVIIbDMRvqclPhQg/edit).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! note

        We are currently working on improving our API Documentation. If you have an API suggestion, [please complete our survey](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1HPQu5Asg3lR0cu5crnLDhlvovGpFVIIbDMRvqclPhQg/edit).
```

    Logins: []string{"auditor"},
    Rules: []services.Rule{
      services.NewRule(services.KindSession, services.RO()),
    },
  },
  Deny: services.RoleConditions{
    NodeLabels: services.Labels{"*": []string{"*"}},
  },
})
if err != nil {
  return err
}
if err = client.UpsertRole(ctx, role); err != nil {
  return err
}
```

### Update Role

The UpsertRole RPC can also be used to update an existing role.

You can update practically any field within the role struct using the role's setter functions.

```go
// retrieve role
role, err := client.GetRole("auditor")
if err != nil {
  return err
}

// update the auditor role's ttl to one day
role.SetOptions(services.RoleOptions{
  MaxSessionTTL: services.Duration(time.Hour * 24),
})
if err := client.UpsertRole(ctx, role); err != nil {
  return err
}
```

### Delete Role

This is the equivalent of `tctl rm auditor-role.yaml`.

```go
if err := client.DeleteRole(ctx, "auditor"); err != nil {
  return err
}
```

## Tokens

[Tokens](admin-guide.md#adding-nodes-to-the-cluster) are used to add nodes to clusters, and add leaf clusters to [trusted clusters](admin-guide.md#trusted-clusters).

### Retrieve token

> 

Reviewer: Along with this, how can you find the expiry time of a token?

```go
token, err := client.GetToken(tokenString)
if err != nil {
  return err
}
```

### Create token

> 

Reviewer: Can you expand that create token is similar to ` tctl tokens add` and it accepts 'node, trusted_cluser and proxy`. It can also accept a --value. You might want to add that here.

```go
tokenString, err := client.GenerateToken(ctx, auth.GenerateTokenRequest{
  Roles: teleport.Roles{teleport.RoleProxy},
  TTL:   time.Hour,
})
if err != nil {
  return err
}
```

### Update token

```go

> // updates the token to be a proxy token

Reviewer: This example is unclear? Why would you want to do this?

token.SetRoles(teleport.Roles{teleport.RoleProxy})
if err := client.UpsertToken(token); err != nil {
  return err
}
```

### Delete token

```go
if err := client.DeleteToken(tokenString); err != nil {
  return err
}
```

## Cluster Labels

The root cluster in a [trusted cluster](admin-guide.md#adding-nodes-to-the-cluster) can add/update cluster labels on leaf clusters.

### Create a leaf cluster token with Labels

> 

Reviewer: I would add a note that this is a 5.0 feature, as we are in the 4.4 docs.

Follow the trusted cluster join token [docs](trustedclusters.md#join-tokens) to use this token to create a leaf cluster using `tctl`.

```go
tokenString, err := client.GenerateToken(ctx, auth.GenerateTokenRequest{
  // You can provide 'Token' for a static token name
  Roles: teleport.Roles{teleport.RoleTrustedCluster},
  TTL:   time.Hour,
  Labels: map[string]string{
    "env": "staging",
  },
})
```

### Update leaf cluster's labels

You can also update a leaf cluster's labels from the root cluster using the auth api if necessary.

```go
rc, err := client.GetRemoteCluster("leafClusterName")
if err != nil {
  return err
}

md := rc.GetMetadata()
md.Labels = map[string]string{"env": "prod"}
rc.SetMetadata(md)

if err = client.UpdateRemoteCluster(ctx, rc); err != nil {
  return err
}

```

## Access Workflow

[Access Workflow](enterprise/workflow/index.md) can be used to dynamically approve and deny a user access to local or remote resources in a trusted cluster.

### Retrieve access requests

```go

> filter := services.AccessRequestFilter{State: services.RequestState_PENDING}

Reviewer: Can you list all of the possible states / filter for access requests?

ars, err := client.GetAccessRequests(ctx, filter)
if err != nil {
  return err
}
```

### Create access request

```go
// create a new access request for api-admin to use the admin role in the cluster
ar, err := services.NewAccessRequest("api-admin", "admin")
if err != nil {
  return err
}

if err = client.CreateAccessRequest(ctx, accessReq); err != nil {
  return err
}
```

### Approve access request

> ```go

Reviewer: There is an API to add a reason / label back to the audit log. Using plugin data https://github.com/gravitational/teleport-plugins/pull/43/files ( has some pointers )

aruApprove := services.AccessRequestUpdate{
  RequestID: accessReqID,
  State:     services.RequestState_APPROVED,
}
if err := client.SetAccessRequestState(ctx, aruApprove); err != nil {
  return err
}
```

### Deny access request

```go
aruDeny := services.AccessRequestUpdate{
  RequestID: accessReqID,
  State:     services.RequestState_DENIED,
}
if err := client.SetAccessRequestState(ctx, aruDeny); err != nil {
  return err
}
```

### Delete access request

```go
if err := client.DeleteAccessRequest(ctx, accessReqID); err != nil {
  return err
}
```

## Certificate Authority

> It might be useful to retrieve your [Certificate Authority](architecture/authentication.md#ssh-certificates) through the API if it is rotating frequently.

Reviewer: I would expand this to include a similar range of options to `tctl auth export` https://gravitational.com/teleport/docs/cli-docs/#tctl-auth-export

        We are currently working on this project. If you have an API suggestion, [please complete our survey](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1HPQu5Asg3lR0cu5crnLDhlvovGpFVIIbDMRvqclPhQg/edit).

# gRPC APIs

In most cases, you can interact with teleport using our cli tools, [tsh](cli-docs.md#tsh) and [tctl](cli-docs.md#tctl). However, there are some scenarios where you may need to interact with teleport programmatically. For this purpose, the same gRPC auth API that `tctl` and `tsh` use is available for direct usage.

## GoLang Examples
Below are some code examples that can be used with Teleport to perform a few key tasks.

Before you begin: 

- Install [Golang](https://golang.org/doc/install) 1.13+ and Setup Go Dev Environment
- Have access to a Teleport Auth server ([quickstart](quickstart.md))

> - [go get](https://golang.org/pkg/cmd/go/internal/get) the following packages (as you need them)

Reviewer 2: Instead of `go get`, can you give a sample of `go.mod` file to include, so we promote the best practices

Author: This go.mod would be 67 lines long (basically just slimmed down version of teleport's go.mod), not sure if it fits well into the docs, but I can try it.

Author: @benarent @russjones What do you think we should do here? I would like to add a short flow like:
```
go mod init
go get github.com/gravitational/teleport
```
But there are a few issues:
- Teleport's `go.mod` has several indirect/replace rules that are necessary to run the API, so simply running `go get github.com/gravitational/teleport` to get the API doesn't work. The easiest way I found to get the API working in a go module is to copy teleport's `go.mod` and then run `go mod tidy` to slim it down a bit. 
- Regardless of the method of setting up the go module, it retrieves Teleport version 4.3.7, which I assume is the latest full release. These docs largely depend on the changes that are coming in #4630, #4573, and a small change in this pr itself. I'm guessing these changes won't be live until 5.0. So these docs won't be in a working state until then. Or if it's possible to `go get teleport-5.0-beta`, that could work, but I couldn't figure that out.

It seems like maybe we're trying to do too much with these docs, and the whole setup section would be better suited just linking to the `go-client` example. I don't see the use of having them copy and paste the whole `go-client` folder together.

Reviewer: I would add it 

> EDIT: it definitely simplifies it for the user even if it's a bit of an eyesore.

Add it in, and I can add a `mkdocs` module to collapse it (Note to self: Add in `- pymdownx.details`) 

>     * Teleport version 4.3.7, which I assume is the latest full release.

That's interesting as our current release is 4.4.1 

>  whole setup section would be better suited just linking to the `go-client` example
I would keep it pretty high level; we don't have to explain each step but it should be enough hints that a junior Go Lang dev will know what to do.

  	- github.com/gravitational/teleport/lib/utils
    - github.com/gravitational/teleport/lib/services

## Authentication 

In order to interact with the API, you will need to provision appropriate
TLS certificates. In order to provision certificates, you will need to create a
user with appropriate permissions. You should only give the api user permissions for what it actually needs. 

To quickly get started with the api, you can use this api-admin user, but in real usage make sure to have stringent permissions in place.

```yaml
# Copy and Paste the below and run on the Teleport Auth server.
$ cat > api-admin.yaml <<EOF
{!examples/go-client/api-admin.yaml!}
EOF

$ tctl create -f api-admin.yaml
$ mkdir -p certs
$ tctl auth sign --format=tls --user=api-admin --out=certs/api-admin 
```

This should result in three PEM encoded files being generated in the `/certs` directory: `api-admin.crt`, `api-admin.key`, and `api-admin.cas` (certificate, private key, and CA certs respectively).

!!! Note
    By default, `tctl auth sign` produces certificates with a relatively short lifetime.
    For production deployments, the `--ttl` flag can be used to ensure a more practical

>     certificate lifetime.

Reviewer: It would be good to provide an example of simple system / weekly job that would be able to obtain new certs for users.

Author: Yeah that's a good idea. I'm not sure of the best way to do this though, i.e. how we would recommend doing this to users.

Do you want me to make an automated process for the auth server to sign the certificates and then send the PEM files to wherever the API is running? How would the PEM files be transferred?

Or did you want me to use the API itself to regenerate the certificates? I don't see a way to do this easily either, as most of the logic for `auth sign` is baked into `tctl` rather than the API.

It looks like nodes in a cluster will automatically request new certificates when their certs enter the rotation grace period, would something similar to this be possible?

Reviewer 2: This is a great question. The proper solution is to have this built into teleport, but this is out of scope of this. You can recommend to create a periodic job using Systemd or Kubernetes to rotate certificates on schedule though. We will provide a better solution for this problem later though.

Reviewer: +1 klizhentas comment.  let's just leave a small comment for now and we'll come back to this later.

```
.
+-- api-admin.yaml
+-- certs
|   +-- api-admin.cas
|   +-- api-admin.crt
|   +-- api-admin.key
+-- client.go
+-- main.go
```

**client.go**
```go
{!examples/go-client/client.go!}
```

## Roles

[Roles](enterprise/ssh-rbac.md#roles) are used to define what resources and actions a user is allowed/denied access to. It's best to make your role's permissions as stringent as possible.

**Create a new role**

```go
// create a new auditor role which has very limited permissions
role, err := services.NewRole("auditor", services.RoleSpecV3{
  Options: services.RoleOptions{
    MaxSessionTTL: services.Duration(time.Hour),
  },
  Allow: services.RoleConditions{
    Logins: []string{"auditor"},
    Rules: []services.Rule{
      // - resources: ['session']
      //   verbs: ['list', 'read']
      services.NewRule(services.KindSession, services.RO()),
    },
  },
  Deny: services.RoleConditions{
    // node_labels: '*': '*'
    NodeLabels: services.Labels{"*": []string{"*"}},
  },
})
if err != nil {
  return err
}

if err := client.UpsertRole(ctx, role); err != nil {
  return err
}
```

**Retrieve role**

```go
role, err := client.GetRole("auditor")
if err != nil {
  return err
}

> ```

Reviewer: I would always structure API Example in this order, as it should be the simplest. Read, Create, Update, Delete

**Update role**

```go
// update the auditor role's read rule to not provide access to secrets
role.SetRules(services.Allow, []services.Rule{

> 	services.NewRule(services.KindSession, services.ReadNoSecrets()),

Author: I'm not sure, I'll change this to a simpler example.

})
if err := client.UpsertRole(ctx, role); err != nil {
  return err
}
```

**Delete role**

```go
if err := client.DeleteRole(ctx, "auditor"); err != nil {
  return err
}
```

## Tokens

[Tokens](admin-guide.md#adding-nodes-to-the-cluster) are used to add nodes to clusters, and add remote clusters to [trusted clusters](admin-guide.md#trusted-clusters).

**Create token**

```go
tokenString, err := client.GenerateToken(ctx, auth.GenerateTokenRequest{

>   // You can provide 'Token' for a non-random tokenString

Reviewer 3: it reads a bit out of place - I think it could be better with an actual commented out example:
```go
tokenString, err := client.GenerateToken(ctx, auth.GenerateTokenRequest{
  // Token: "custom token value", // Set token explicitly, otherwise it will be generated
  Roles: teleport.Roles{teleport.RoleProxy},
  TTL:   time.Hour,
})
```

  Roles: teleport.Roles{teleport.RoleProxy},
  TTL:   time.Hour,
})
if err != nil {
  return err
}
```

**Retrieve token**

```go
token, err := client.GetToken(tokenString)
if err != nil {
  return err
}
```

**Update token**

```go
// updates the token to be a proxy token
token.SetRoles(teleport.Roles{teleport.RoleProxy})
if err := client.UpsertToken(token); err != nil {
  return err
}
```

**Delete token**

```go
if err := client.DeleteToken(tokenString); err != nil {
  return err
}
```

## Cluster Labels

The root cluster in a [trusted cluster](admin-guide.md#adding-nodes-to-the-cluster) can add/update cluster labels on remote clusters.

> **Create a remote cluster token with Labels**

Reviewer: We should add a note, that this is only supported once https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/pull/4630 is merged. ( I'm not sure if we'll backport to 4.4 )

Author: Is there a specific release we can mention, like 5.0 Beta or something?

Reviewer: Correct, it'll only be 5.0. I would just leave a note in the docs for now.

Remote clusters will inherit the labels of the [join token](trustedclusters.md#join-tokens) used to add them to the trusted cluster. This is the preferred method of managing cluster tokens.

Follow the trusted cluster join token [docs](trustedclusters.md#join-tokens) to use this token to create a remote cluster using `tctl`.

```go
tokenString, err := client.GenerateToken(ctx, auth.GenerateTokenRequest{
  // You can provide 'Token' for a static token name
  Roles: teleport.Roles{teleport.RoleTrustedCluster},
  TTL:   time.Hour,
  Labels: map[string]string{
    "env": "staging",
  },
})
```

**Update remote cluster's labels**

You can also update a remote cluster's labels from the root cluster using the auth api if necessary.

```go

> rc, err := services.GetRemoteCluster("remoteClusterName")

Reviewer 3: This is a bit confusing as I don't know whether this is referring to a package or a value (I haven't found a package-level API named `GetRemoteCluster` in lib/services) - should this use the `client`?

if err != nil {
  return err
}

md := rc.GetMetadata()
md.Labels = map[string]string{"env": "prod"}
rc.SetMetadata(md)

if err = client.UpdateRemoteCluster(ctx, rc); err != nil {
  return err
}

```

## Access Requests

> Our [Approval Workflow](enterprise/workflow.md) can be used to dynamically approve and deny a user access to local or remote resources in a trusted cluster.

Reviewer 3: nit: there's no `docs/4.4/enterprise/worklow.md` but I'm not sure how this would be handled by the doc builder.

Reviewer 4: Think it should be linked to `enterprise/workflow/index.md` which does exist - the `milv` check on the docs will fail otherwise.

**Create access request**

```go
// create a new access request for api-admin to use the admin role in the cluster
accessReq, err := services.NewAccessRequest("api-admin", "admin")
if err != nil {
  return err
}

if err = client.CreateAccessRequest(ctx, accessReq); err != nil {
  return err
}
```

**Retrieve access requests**

```go
filter := services.AccessRequestFilter{State: services.RequestState_PENDING}
accessReqs, err := client.GetAccessRequests(ctx, filter)
if err != nil {
  return err
}
```

**Approve access request**

```go
aruApprove := services.AccessRequestUpdate{
  RequestID: accessReqID,
  State:     services.RequestState_APPROVED,
}

> if err := client.SetAccessRequestState(ctx, aru); err != nil {

Reviewer 3: aru -> aruApprove

  return err
}
```

**Deny access request**

```go
aru := services.AccessRequestUpdate{
  RequestID: accessReqID,

>   State:     services.RequestState_APPROVED,

Reviewer 3: `services.RequestState_APPROVED` -> `services.RequestState_DENIED`

}

> if err := client.SetAccessRequestState(ctx, aruDeny); err != nil {

Reviewer 3: either rename `aru` -> `aruDeny`, or use `aru` instead of `aruDeny`.

  return err
}
```

**Delete access request**

```go

> if err = client.DeleteAccessRequest(ctx, accessReqID; err != nil {

Reviewer 3: missing closing bracket on the function call

TLS certificates. In order to provision certificates, you will need to create a
user with appropriate permissions. You should only give the api user permissions for what it actually needs.

To quickly get started with the api, you can use this api-admin user, but in real usage make sure to have stringent permissions in place.

```yaml
# Copy and Paste the below and run on the Teleport Auth server.
$ cat > api-admin.yaml <<EOF
{!examples/go-client/api-admin.yaml!}
EOF

$ tctl create -f api-admin.yaml
$ mkdir -p certs
$ tctl auth sign --format=tls --user=api-admin --out=certs/api-admin
```

This should result in three PEM encoded files being generated in the `/certs` directory: `api-admin.crt`, `api-admin.key`, and `api-admin.cas` (certificate, private key, and CA certs respectively).

Move the `/certs` folder into your `/api-examples` folder.

!!! Note
    By default, `tctl auth sign` produces certificates with a relatively short lifetime.
    For production deployments, the `--ttl` flag can be used to ensure a more practical
    certificate lifetime.

## Go Client

Add `client.go` into `/api-examples`.

**client.go**

```go
{!examples/go-client/client.go!}
```

## Go Packages

> Copy the Teleport module's go.mod below into `/api-examples` and then run `go mod tidy` to slim it down to only what's needed for these api examples.

Reviewer 2: perfect

**main.go**

```go
package main

import (
	"fmt"
	"log"
)

func main() {
	log.Printf("Starting teleport client...")
	client, err := connectClient()
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatalf("Failed to create client: %v", err)
	}
}
```

## Roles

[Roles](enterprise/ssh-rbac.md#roles) are used to define what resources and actions a user is allowed/denied access to. It's best to make your role's permissions as stringent as possible.

**Retrieve role**

```go
role, err := client.GetRole("auditor")
if err != nil {
  return err
}
```

**Create a new role**

```go
// create a new auditor role which has very limited permissions
role, err := services.NewRole("auditor", services.RoleSpecV3{
  Options: services.RoleOptions{
    MaxSessionTTL: services.Duration(time.Hour),
  },
  Allow: services.RoleConditions{
    Logins: []string{"auditor"},
    Rules: []services.Rule{
      // - resources: ['session']
      //   verbs: ['list', 'read']
      services.NewRule(services.KindSession, services.RO()),
    },
  },
  Deny: services.RoleConditions{
    // node_labels: '*': '*'
    NodeLabels: services.Labels{"*": []string{"*"}},
  },
})
if err != nil {
  return err
}

> if err = client.UpsertRole(ctx, role); err != nil {

Reviewer 2: Let's use Create and Update whenever possible in our example. Upsert was a mistake and we should be deprecating it

  return err
}
```

**Update role**

```go
// update the auditor role's ttl to one day
role.SetOptions(services.RoleOptions{
	MaxSessionTTL: services.Duration(time.Hour * 24),
})

> if err := client.UpsertRole(ctx, role); err != nil {

Reviewer 2: Let's use Update here

Author: Right now there isn't an `UpdateRole` or `UpdateToken` function, only Upsert.

  return err
}
```

**Delete role**

```go
if err := client.DeleteRole(ctx, "auditor"); err != nil {
  return err
}
```

## Tokens

[Tokens](admin-guide.md#adding-nodes-to-the-cluster) are used to add nodes to clusters, and add remote clusters to [trusted clusters](admin-guide.md#trusted-clusters).

**Retrieve token**

```go
token, err := client.GetToken(tokenString)
if err != nil {
  return err
}
```

**Create token**

```go
tokenString, err := client.GenerateToken(ctx, auth.GenerateTokenRequest{

>   // Token: "custom token value", // Set token explicitly, otherwise it will be generated

Reviewer 2: Let's stick to our principles and always advise the best security solution even in our comments,
// https://sosedoff.com/2014/12/15/generate-random-hex-string-in-go.html
// Token: CryptoRandomHex()

token.SetRoles(teleport.Roles{teleport.RoleProxy})
if err := client.UpsertToken(token); err != nil {
  return err
}
```

**Delete token**

```go
if err := client.DeleteToken(tokenString); err != nil {
  return err
}
```

## Cluster Labels

The root cluster in a [trusted cluster](admin-guide.md#adding-nodes-to-the-cluster) can add/update cluster labels on remote clusters.

**Create a remote cluster token with Labels**

Remote clusters will inherit the labels of the [join token](trustedclusters.md#join-tokens) used to add them to the trusted cluster. This is the preferred method of managing cluster tokens.

Follow the trusted cluster join token [docs](trustedclusters.md#join-tokens) to use this token to create a remote cluster using `tctl`.

```go
tokenString, err := client.GenerateToken(ctx, auth.GenerateTokenRequest{
  // You can provide 'Token' for a static token name
  Roles: teleport.Roles{teleport.RoleTrustedCluster},
  TTL:   time.Hour,
  Labels: map[string]string{
    "env": "staging",
  },
})
```

**Update remote cluster's labels**

You can also update a remote cluster's labels from the root cluster using the auth api if necessary.

```go

> rc, err := client.GetRemoteCluster("remoteClusterName")

Reviewer 2: we can use a better name for future references, e.g. "leaf"

if err != nil {
  return err
}

md := rc.GetMetadata()
md.Labels = map[string]string{"env": "prod"}
rc.SetMetadata(md)

if err = client.UpdateRemoteCluster(ctx, rc); err != nil {
  return err
}

```

> ## Access Requests

Reviewer 2: Access Workflows API

Reviewer: This has reminded me to update it in the side nav, I'll do this when I help @Joerger deploy this.

> Our [Approval Workflow](enterprise/workflow/index.md) can be used to dynamically approve and deny a user access to local or remote resources in a trusted cluster.

Reviewer 2: Access Workflows

        We are currently working on this project. If you have an API suggestion, [please complete our survey](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1HPQu5Asg3lR0cu5crnLDhlvovGpFVIIbDMRvqclPhQg/edit).

> # gRPC APIs

Reviewer 5: I don't think we need to tell people it's a GRPC API. If they are using the Teleport Client they might be using HTTP under the hood anyway.

> In most cases, you can interact with teleport using our cli tools, [tsh](cli-docs.md#tsh) and [tctl](cli-docs.md#tctl). However, there are some scenarios where you may need to interact with teleport programmatically. For this purpose, the same gRPC auth API that `tctl` and `tsh` use is available for direct usage.

Reviewer 5: Teleport, CLI, and API should all be capitialized.

Also make it more generic explaining that the user will be using the same API that `tctl` and `tsh` use.

## Go Examples

!!! Note

>     The Go examples depend on some code that won't be released until `Teleport version 5.0`. Until then, it would be best to start experimenting with the API with the latest [master branch of Teleport](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport).

Reviewer 5: I don't think you need the code blocks around "Teleport version 5.0", also you can just say Teleport 5.0.

import (
	"fmt"
	"log"
)

func main() {
	log.Printf("Starting teleport client...")
	client, err := connectClient()
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatalf("Failed to create client: %v", err)
	}
}
```

## Roles

[Roles](enterprise/ssh-rbac.md#roles) are used to define what resources and actions a user is allowed/denied access to. It's best to make your role's permissions as stringent as possible.

**Retrieve role**

```go
role, err := client.GetRole("auditor")
if err != nil {
  return err
}
```

**Create a new role**

```go
// create a new auditor role which has very limited permissions
role, err := services.NewRole("auditor", services.RoleSpecV3{
  Options: services.RoleOptions{
    MaxSessionTTL: services.Duration(time.Hour),
  },
  Allow: services.RoleConditions{
    Logins: []string{"auditor"},
    Rules: []services.Rule{
      // - resources: ['session']
      //   verbs: ['list', 'read']
      services.NewRule(services.KindSession, services.RO()),
    },
  },
  Deny: services.RoleConditions{
    // node_labels: '*': '*'
    NodeLabels: services.Labels{"*": []string{"*"}},
  },
})
if err != nil {
  return err
}

if err = client.UpsertRole(ctx, role); err != nil {
  return err
}

> ```

Reviewer 5: For this and all other examples, add a sentence of two that explain what this API does. Maybe even add some examples that the user can relate to, like how this would be done with `tctl` right now.

You have some of this in the function comment, but clean it up and explain it.

Here is very rough example of how I would update it with. @benarent what do you think?

**Create Role**

You can use the `UpsertRole` RPC to programmatically create a new role. You may want to create a new role if:

* You want to write a program that can always ensure certain roles exist on your system and do not want to orchestrate `tctl` to do this.
* You want to dynamically create short lived roles.
* You want to dynamically create roles with fields filled that Teleport currently does not support.

For example, suppose you wanted to create a role for an auditor that could view all sessions, but could not access any servers.

Using `tctl`, you would first create a role that allows reading and listing of the `session` session resource like below. In addition, the user is explicitly denied access to all nodes in the `deny` block.

```bash
$ cat << EOF > /tmp/auditor-role.yaml
kind: role
version: v3
metadata:
  name: auditor
spec:
  options:
    max_session_ttl: 8h
  allow:
    rules:
    - resources: [session]
      verbs: [list, read]
  deny: {}
    node_labels: '*': '*'
EOF
$ tctl create -f /tmp/auditor-role.yaml
```

To do something similar with the API:

```go
role, err := services.NewRole("auditor", services.RoleSpecV3{
  Options: services.RoleOptions{
    MaxSessionTTL: services.Duration(time.Hour),
  },
  Allow: services.RoleConditions{
    Logins: []string{"auditor"},
    Rules: []services.Rule{
      services.NewRule(services.KindSession, services.RO()),
    },
  },
  Deny: services.RoleConditions{
    NodeLabels: services.Labels{"*": []string{"*"}},
  },
})
if err != nil {
  return err
}
if err = client.UpsertRole(ctx, role); err != nil {
This conversation was marked as resolved by Joerger
  return err
}
```

Author: My thought process was that if a user is looking to use the API, they will already have a good idea what they need it for. Otherwise they would be using the more straightforward and developed CLI tools. I also don't have a good enough understanding of all of the use cases a user might have, and it would take a bit of time to dig into that, as well as multiple more reviews. How should we proceed given the deadline today?

Reviewer 5: I think what we have is good and we can share it if needed. But let's clean this up some more next week before we merge.

Reviewer: @russjones  the example you provided for Create Role, is spot on. Let's try to build out similar examples for the rest of the docs. I can help with this next week. ( We can also do this with a follow up PR )

Reviewer 5: @Joerger Take a look at Stripe docs for balance. Even though it's self explanatory what balance is, it's still explained first.

https://stripe.com/docs/api/balance

Reviewer 5: One of the other really nice things about their docs is they document the data types for input and output. Really makes using the API simple to use by reducing guesswork.

**Update role**

```go
// update the auditor role's ttl to one day
role.SetOptions(services.RoleOptions{
	MaxSessionTTL: services.Duration(time.Hour * 24),
})
if err := client.UpsertRole(ctx, role); err != nil {
  return err
}
```

**Delete role**

```go
if err := client.DeleteRole(ctx, "auditor"); err != nil {
  return err
}
```

## Tokens

[Tokens](admin-guide.md#adding-nodes-to-the-cluster) are used to add nodes to clusters, and add leaf clusters to [trusted clusters](admin-guide.md#trusted-clusters).

**Retrieve token**

```go
token, err := client.GetToken(tokenString)
if err != nil {
  return err
}
```

**Create token**

```go
tokenString, err := client.GenerateToken(ctx, auth.GenerateTokenRequest{
  // You can set token explicitly, otherwise it will be generated

>   // Token: CryptoRandomHex()

Reviewer 5: If you want to use `CryptoRandomHex()` in this example, include the package it's in and the error handling otherwise it's hard to know what to do with it.

Author: This evolved from several pr reviews. Originally it was just a comment saying  "//You can set token explicitly, otherwise it will be generated", then  "// Token: "yourTokenString" // You can set token explicitly, otherwise it will be generated" then it's current iteration. Seems overly complicated and I'm just going to remove the line comments altogether for now.

  return err
}

```

## Access Workflow

[Access Workflow](enterprise/workflow/index.md) can be used to dynamically approve and deny a user access to local or remote resources in a trusted cluster.

**Retrieve access requests**

```go
filter := services.AccessRequestFilter{State: services.RequestState_PENDING}
ars, err := client.GetAccessRequests(ctx, filter)
if err != nil {
  return err
}
```

**Create access request**

```go
// create a new access request for api-admin to use the admin role in the cluster
ar, err := services.NewAccessRequest("api-admin", "admin")
if err != nil {
  return err
}

if err = client.CreateAccessRequest(ctx, accessReq); err != nil {
  return err
}
```

**Approve access request**

```go
aruApprove := services.AccessRequestUpdate{
  RequestID: accessReqID,
  State:     services.RequestState_APPROVED,
}
if err := client.SetAccessRequestState(ctx, aruApprove); err != nil {
  return err
}
```

**Deny access request**

```go
aruDeny := services.AccessRequestUpdate{
  RequestID: accessReqID,
  State:     services.RequestState_DENIED,
}
if err := client.SetAccessRequestState(ctx, aruDeny); err != nil {
  return err
}
```

**Delete access request**

```go

> if err = client.DeleteAccessRequest(ctx, accessReqID); err != nil {

Reviewer 5: This should be `if err := ...` the above snippet will only work if you have err defined already.

> 	return err

Reviewer 5: Spacing in these examples is inconsistent. It should be tabs or spaces, but not both. I don't know if @benarent has a preference for which.
